We thought we'd get a fire, faster than we, of course than we did.
As hard as we were working, we just couldn't seem to get it.
And then, of course, we were tired from the... from the long day.
It was getting dark and we still kept trying and trying, even when it was dark, to try to get the fire going.
That was, you know, a big frustration.
I was thinking and hoping it wouldn't have come down to this so fast.
But I really like the younger people, but I just feel like for me to stay in the game as long as I can, I need to be on the stronger side, and at this point I feel like it's Carl, Frank, and Linda.
We're just wondering if Silas is still with us or not.
My gut feeling just says he's-he's playing, playing both sides.
But I'm not-- I can't be for sure.
I really don't know which way they're going.
But I guess there's a reason they could keep each one of us and a reason they could decide to take each one of us off.
Hey, it's a game, which they... they utter every minute, “It's a game.
It's a game.” I don't know.
It-- I-I felt so good last night.
I feel so good right now, because I know we got to 'em and it-it feels good.
Only two more Immunity Challenges before the merger.
I talked with Kim and also with Ethan... that if we didn't win this one, that was okay.
Believe it or not, I think we're all unsure what the hens need to do to lay the eggs.
Franks wants to put a net out there so they can run around and play.
I won't vote for Clarence tonight because I told him I wouldn't do that, and he honored his word, and I feel like I've got to do the same.
This was a hard vote for me to cast.
I think you're a wonderful, fascinating person.
But your leadership, strength, and skills make me a little nervous for down the road, so I'm giving you my vote.
Lex was just distraught.
I mean, it was just terrible.
He said, “All I could think about was who was the one that voted” for him, and, I mean, I didn't think it would be that much of an impact.
I thought, “Shoot, ten votes: he got two, didn't get eight.
Oh, what's the big deal?
He's here.” But it wasn't like that a bit.
Of course they figure that Clarence had voted him, but they had to figure out who the other person was.
It was me!
I mean, I-I did it.
I'm sick that I did it now, but like I said, I didn't think it would be such an ordeal.
Mama didn't raise no fool.
I'm going to keep quiet for a while longer, just because, well, I'm not really ready to go.
All along I played with being straight up with everybody, and now I'm not straight up with them for obvious reasons, and I-I don't know where to go with it now.
Um, it bothers me.
It bother me a lot, actually.
I hate this game.
I hadn't told anybody yet that I voted for Lex, and I won't anytime soon.
It did work well with Lex gone.
So it's allowed us to do things that I don't think would have happened if he had stayed.
We've got Kelly.
I don't know that I trust Kelly, but at this point, I don't have a choice not to.
She's our only hope.
Well, what can I say about Frank?
Once again, Frank is Frank.
He brings up this gun stuff.
And Lex is going like this (shakes head) there, you know, Ethan's sitting over there, not saying a word, but I can tell it's getting to him, too.
And I'm thinking to myself, “Frank, cut it, stop!”
Today is Tribal Council day.
Today is the day that you don't want to really ruffle any feathers.
But, you know, I started out from the very beginning with an alliance with Frank, and, um, shoot, I've been here for this many days.
I'm sure not going to give up now.
It's a shot in the dark, but if I can persuade Kim to vote off Ethan, that would break up that alliance.
It could hurt me going to Kim, but Ethan's bonded with those guys, and they're going to be strong enough every time they vote to weed off one more of us.
So it's kind of a risk, but at this point, I feel like this is the only chance I've got.
This is not a vote of betrayal.
This is a-a vote of strategy.
Frank, thank you so much for the friendship.
It was neat hearing about everything they did, but my mind is kind of going in different directions on what to do, and now at this point, instead of boggling myself down mentally with strategy, I'm really just holding out to see what happens with the Immunity Challenge.
If we could get one more to side with us, we could get Lex off.
This is the time you got to start thinking who do you want to go to the end with and who do you want off.
You're a strong competitor.
That's why I'm giving you my vote.
I'm still crazy about you, though.
It seems like the first one I probably grabbed was from my dad, because his health is not very good.
Before I left, I remember telling him, “You better be here when I get back.” So I think his letter probably touched me the most because I worry the most about him.
This experience would be nothing if I didn't have somebody to go back and share it with.
It definitely brought a calm and-and a reality to me that, you know, the game's almost over, and that's where I'm going back to.
When they opened up the back of the truck, it was, uh, very emotional for me.
Right away when I saw that it just brought back all the emotions of everything.
It made me very happy.
Kim said today that she knows that, you know, the guys are-are-- have got such a strong alliance, that she is the next to go.
And I'm thinking to myself, “Good for you.
Good for you, you're finally thinking.” And I said, “What-what if Lex doesn't get immunity and I can get Tom to vote Lex off?” And she said then she'd do that.
She said it's not too early now to do that.
And I'm thinking, “Well, hey, she's waking up a little bit.”
This Immunity Challenge coming up is certainly going to be the most important for me.
I'm the last Samburu left, so it would be easy for them right now just to go ahead and move me out.
Whatever it is, I gotta give it all I've got.
For me, it's, um, I guess kind of bittersweet.
I know that I'm going to be the next one to go unless I can think of something real quick.
I had thought of every different way I could play it.
And unfortunately, with Lex getting immunity, that cut down a lot of my options, and I really only had one option to go, and that was with trying to get Lex and Kim Johnson to vote off Tom.
Knowing I'm pretty sure I was gone, I thought I don't have anything to lose, anyway, I'll go ahead and-and let him know that I was the one that put the vote against Lex.
And she said, you know, “When you got that one mystery vote,” who at the time I thought might be Kelly, “I was the one that cast that vote for you.”
Tom wants Lex off, but he says, “I can't vote him,” so he wants everybody else to do the dirty work for him, so he still looks like the good guy.
This has been an absolute experience of a lifetime.
I never dreamed I'd make it to be one of the sixteen Survivors, much less be one of the five remaining Survivors.
It's something I will, of course, never forget.
I appreciate having the opportunity to be here and to experience everything here in Africa.
Thank you for a wonderful experience.
Out here, you can't be as vocal as you might be back home.
Because if you are, you might not be here long and that's just part of the game.
Tonight's Tribal Council, for me, will be bittersweet.
Number one, the game is over.
Number two, I didn't get as far as I would have liked to have gone, which would have been first or second.
Ideally first.
Also bittersweet because the two people that I'm trying to make a decision on are two people that I respect and genuinely like a lot.
Of course, the whole game's been pretty difficult, so why should it change now?
Well-deserved.
