I can't answer anymore tonight, but I will answer any new ones tomorrow.
Thanks everyone.
He's dead?
With the name RUPERT BONEHAM you don't think kids could come up with many things to tease me about?
I remember in third grade the constant teasing about my beard.
I'd have the State Police protecting me.
Samurai may not be in the budget.
I was a bouncer for years in a back alley bar.
I don't need protection.
I am all for midwives.
If you want to have your child at home, you should be able to.
To give a hospital $10,000 for the use of a room is a little extreme.
We should be able to choose how we live our lives.
I fully support the 9th and 10th Amendments.
I know what they mean, and as Governor, I will take my oath seriously.
Thank you so much!
I just spent a few hours talking to early voters, in the cold.
I appreciate everyone that gets involved.
Thank you for your support.
If I win this race, I will never go back.
If not, I can't say never but it is unlikely.
They prefer the bad guys over the good guys.
Fern make the best toilet paper.
It's like the Charmin of leaves.
I believe there is hope for marriage equality in Indiana.
As Governor, I will ensure that HJR-6 does not continue, and we revisit Indiana DOMA.
I will fight enshrining discrimination in our Constitution.
I am the ONLY candidate for Governor in Indiana EVER to pledge to fight for 100% marriage equality.
This is the last civil rights battle, and we are going to win.
It may not be immediately, but the louder your voice, the quicker things get better.
We are most definitely creatures of habit.
We do what is familiar.
Secondly, 70% of our population does not vote because they do not hear their voice represented.
As third parties grow, voter apathy will die, and so will the two party system.
Stephanie, is that you?
I can't wait to have my first press photo of me in tie-dye behind the desk in the Governor's office!
But I don't see myself running around in a tie-dye tank top much after I am governor.
But it will still be under a few layers!
It COULD reach 6 Billion!
With all of that money spent, do you feel more informed about your choices?
It's ridiculous that political parties are willing to spend such exorbitant amounts for a position that pays $400,000.
It's not the salary that they are after.
It's the power and control over trillions of dollars.
This money comes with strings attached.
We need honesty in politics, and we won't get it as long as we continue to vote in two parties that don't have you and I in their best interest.
In my race, I have spent a 300th of what my opponents have spent, and I hope to show that you can take the money out of the campaign, and still see success.
I am sorry I missed you too!
With just two days left, I can't stay anywhere for too long!
I had four events yesterday.
If you want to say hi, come out to our victory celebration on Tuesday night!
You didn't enjoy that extra hour of sleep today?
Thank you for your support!
I can't believe I am saying it, but I had a lot of fun in the debates!
I found it interesting though that the other two worked very hard... to not answer any questions!
As far as DST, it may be a silly notion, but everyone else is doing it!
It benefits our economy to hold to one time zone that is consistent with everyone else.
P.S.
I wouldn't jump off a bridge... :)
I have been fighting for our community for 20 years!
I don't give up.
I didn't in my mentoring program, in my small businesses, on Survivor, and now in politics.
I am here to stay!
Thank you.
We have to burn coal cleaner, and in the 21st century we have the technology to do so.
Indiana depends on coal, and we are not going to abandon coal.
The problem in our system is the cozy relationship between the power companies and the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission.
We need a truly independent Governor to watch over the current deals in Indiana.
The Citizens Action Coalition has done a very good job of documenting the problems in Indiana.
We need to hold every citizen in Indiana to the same standards, no matter what your job or position may be.
When someone is breaking the law, they should be punished.
I don't think any Republican or Democrat would answer your question this way.
We need to start electing Libertarians to office, and create a fair and level playing field for all.
I was the only one in the debates that was willing to say, "Did we not learn from our past?"
I will repeal the Right To Work law.
The government should not have the power to dictate how workers deal with workers and vice versa when they aren't breaking the law.
RTW is an infringement on the free market.
Here is my press release: http://rupertforgovernor.com/component/content/article/34-video/93-rupert-on-rtw
The World's Smallest Political quiz is what woke me up to the fact that I am a Libertarian, and have been all of my life.
I just voted for Democrats, even though I wasn't satisfied with them.
Take the quiz:
And learn a little about the party.
I think our stances on things like criminal justice reform, civil liberties, education, and anti-war issues will make you say Hmm.
In our program, Rupert's Kids, we find where a young man or woman's aptitude lies.
You have to get them interested in something.
When you are not making it in education, the only alternative is to focus on vocation.
If the school is letting you or your child down, I am sorry.
It's one of the reasons I am running.
I see this too often.
My suggestion is to take what a child is most interested in and find shadow opportunities.
Ask local businesses to let them shadow for a day.
No death!
But in a fight, you never count Sandra out!
She is a tough one, and you have to be tough to win Survivor TWICE!
Good luck in your race, Hardy!
Please check my answer about my future plans.
If, by some crazy chance, I don't win this time I will run in four years.
We WILL hold the winner's feet to the fire, and you will hear what I have to say about the decisions being made.
I will be speaking about what I'd do as Governor.
I will say that I will throw myself back in to Rupert's Kids with the same passion I've had for this race.
It's a privilege to see lives being changed through our programs.
I feel like it is the only real way to change the system for the better.
Trying to change the system from my position as a well-known community advocate got me polite thanks and pats on the back, but it didn't bring as much progress as I'd like to see.
As one of the policy makers is the only real way to change the system.
As a third party candidate, I am seeing my ideas and phrases being adopted by my opponents.
I am running because I have something to say.
For anyone out there who feels as if they have something to say and want to make a difference, you have to run.
It's our first amendment right!
You have the right to assemble with other like minded individuals, speak freely, and protest the government.
And the government should make no laws to stop that from happening!
We have been given more media than most Libertarians, or most thirds parties, but we are still largely ignored.
In some cases, it is blatant censorship.
In other cases, it's lazy media.
there will be three choices in Indiana because of automatic ballot access.
If a media outlet cares about giving the voter good information, they will cover Libertarians equally.
We were included in all three Gubernatorial debates because the Indiana Debate Commission truly puts the voter first and gives complete information to the voter.
I am running for Governor in a system that is not designed to understand the NAP.
It's a brutal system, and it needs reformed.
I am working to reform that system when I am elected in January.
As Libertarians, it's a difficult tight rope, because it may take 100 years to achieve our destination, but we are running for office NOW.
Please see my note on poll numbers in another question.
We need to continue what we are doing.
People are listening, and are ready.
The LPIN Executive Director, Chris Spangle, was telling me earlier that 4 years ago on this same night, there were 10 volunteers with a couple of hundred pieces of literature on Election Day, and a dozen yard signs.
The volunteers had no idea what to do.
Tonight, we've passed out 70,000 pieces of literature to hundreds of volunteers for our LP candidates.
It takes every Libertarian realizing that it isn't just on the party to ensure growth.... You ARE the party, and we need every libertarian to be active to help us grow.
Conservation is incredibly important to me.
We need to protect our environment, especially since Indiana relies so heavily on agricultural and environmental tourism.
We need to encourage businesses to be good stewards of the Earth, and still be able to conduct business.
In Indiana there have been some troubling deals with our energy companies, and we need more transparency in all future projects.
The menu is the same, win or lose.
We are going to celebrate, and I am going to continue to find ways to serve my community.
We plan on winning, and I am excited to go to work for Indiana on Wednesday.
The rule is to keep it out of camp.
You don't get bathrooms.
The only toilet paper is hanging on the trees!
I have signed the NAP as a member of the Libertarian Party, and support it fully.
For those unfamiliar with the NAP, it's what every Libertarian member signs, and is as follows: "I hereby certify that I do not believe in or advocate the initiation of force as a means of achieving political or social goals."
First, in Indiana, they don't release polling numbers for early voting in individual races.
What they do release is heavily skewed and not an accurate view of what will happen on Tuesday.
For them to show us pulling 5% or so is silly.
You have to look at the questions and the methodology of these polls.
If they don't release that, discount it immediately.
If they do, I am not often mentioned in most or all of the questions, and I am still polling 5%.
Here is a snapshot of our internal polling.
It tells a far different story.
Notice our margin of error is far lower, and our sampling far higher, than other polls.
We will not lay down
November change is near
for it's our time now
Thank you!
Be sure to tell your dad I said Hi.
Thank you so much!
I really appreciate your support!
Thanks buddy!
I love my Aussie friends!
No way to BSL!
It's not the breed that makes a bad *blank* it's the bad owner!
If you treat an animal with love and respect, that's what you'll get back.
If you are violent and abusive...you'll get bit!
I really do appreciate that!
Do you have any friends or family here in Indiana that you can share our message with?
Because that would be a big help, too.
Thanks buddy!
Thank you so much for the support!
Was that one of the First Friday events?
What more do I need to do to persuade you?
I am for sure going to do another one on November 4th.
Keep an eye out for it on my Facebook page and Twitter feed.
And I gave it away.
$487,000 in taxes, $236,000 on my family (bills, used car for mom, daughter's education, house payments etc) and then split $277,000 between three local charities.
We pay our taxes, take care of our home and then help others.
Way to be secure in your sexuality.
You are correct.
You are an individual and responsible for your actions alone.
I feel that the majority of people have been complacent and allowed these things to happen over time.
It's on us (you, me and the rest of liberty movement) to do what we can to show them that how this happened and how "we" can fix it.
Did you know that almost 50% of state budget goes to education?
I don't think we aren't spending enough...I think we are spending poorly.
We need to do more to increase education competitiveness.
We need to bring new technology and new ways of teaching into our classrooms.
We need to champion our dedicated teachers.
We also must understand that not every student needs or wants to go to college.
Some students will want to go into vocational and trades programs.
When 25% of students in Indiana, closer to 50% in Indianapolis, will not graduate... we need new options and education paths for students.
I saw it and giggled a little.
1620!
We.. are the ones that have let this happen.
We are the ones that have given the power to these people.
We are the ones that can make it right and take it back.
As in the societal or collective "We".
We (haha) are a team and can only do this together.
It's not about me or I...
It's Our Time!
Ok everyone it's after 9pm.
I need to go and tuck my daughter into bed.
I'll be coming in here over the next few days and responding to some of the questions I didn't get to.
What do you think... should we do this again Sunday November 4th at 7pm?
I have worked for 21 years running a mentoring program that takes young men and women and teaches them how to have self worth and work ethic.
We've done this with NO government dollars, tax dollars or grant funding.
We are a 100% private charity that runs on donations and community support.
We need more programs like that working on the local level addressing the needs of the individual.
Not some bureaucratic behemoth making arbitrary rules and tying them to funding.
I can't single out one individual program that I would cute from.
I can say that if cuts are needed, it will always start with administration costs first.
Tu ne cede malis sed contra audentior ito!
In short... all of it!
Austrian School of economics meets Indiana 2013-14 budgets ;)
Mostly it's been positive.
People saw me when I was at my lowest (beat down to nothing) and I was still the good guy.
Also, people know that I took the money and the small celebrity status and helped strengthen my community with it.
No one makes all the right decisions in life, it's what you do after you see the mistake that matters.
Do you own it, correct and move on...or do you live in fear of it?
I have no regrets...well maybe the dress wasn't  a great visual for a future Governor.
You really can't tell how much physical pain they are in.
The toll hunger can have on you.
How easy it is to let the boredom in and just sit and complain (wasn't a problem for me...I went fishing).
Rudy Bosh, Grave Digger James...and of course Me :)
We need to treat animal cruelty and torture as just that.
Not some petty crime where you get a fine.
We also need to make sure that local prosecutors actually take these cases on.
What is BSL?
Stopping the privatization of our prison system is of the utmost importance.
Putting and keeping people in jail should never be a for profit endeavor.
When there is a financial incentive to keep people in the system there is no way out.
These are peoples lives.
I will keep on fighting to bring this issue to light and will work to cancel these contracts.
As a small business owner and youth advocate, I have experienced firsthand the effect governmental roadblocks placed in front of our struggling small business continue to have.
I felt that Indiana needed a leader that understands the struggles that Hoosiers are facing.
Not some polished politician that has a perfect sound bite for everything.
I am running as a Libertarian for one simple reason...I am a proud Libertarian.
It may have taken most of life to figure out that I had been living and teaching the Libertarian philosophy for years!
It was when I first took the [Worlds Smallest Political Quiz](http://theadvocates.org/) that I discovered there was a political party that I trully alligned with.
My team has been calling all 92 counties in Indiana to get Watcher cards for election day.
The Democrats and Republicans get these, clerks and judges on election day.
We have had a very hard time getting our poll workers their credentials.
Why?
Because even something as simple as being able to "watch" and make sure nothing funny is going on at the polls...is a partisan thing.
Our system is designed to keep the two parties in power.
I think our dedicated activists and volunteers have been chipping away at it... and now it's starting to crumble.
There are a few people that have said I should shave the beard and ditch my tie-dye undershirts.
Why would I change who I am just to get elected.
After all, these fake polished politicians are the problem.
If you want honesty and integrity in government...let's start by being ourselves first and not what we think people want us to be.
As the only candidate that has created private sector jobs and taught young men and women how to create jobs for themselves, I understand the consequences of misguided government policy.
These misguided policies are what make your college tuition high and job prospects low.
At the end of the day, I’m not a career politician I’m a small business owner.
whether it's people or animals, my family and I have always stood up for those that can't defend themselves.
Our "pets" are members of our family.
When it comes to farms we have to remember we are not talking about pets, we are talking about our food supply.
But, cruelty and torture are never acceptable.
Period!
Hey there Rosie!
I'm sorry you are in the hospital.
You and your sister have been in my thoughts.
Hope you both are able to come to the election night party with Jason.
In the past I've helped to build community based neighborhood cleanup projects.
We worked with the city to get a trash truck and a few supplies.
Communities can be empowered to take these actions on their own, when the government has failed to do it.
I would be more than happy to talk with you more about how to setup one of these programs.
Heck, I would even come and help out.
One thing that I think would help prevent this from being a problem would be first-time homeowner programs sponsored by the city.
The city of Indianapolis has tons of livable housing in it's "Land Bank".
But it's all just sitting there rotting.
I think I've proven that I'm not in this as a career politician or using this as a stepping stone to the White House.
I'm a hardworking Hoosier that truly understands the effect misguided government programs and laws can have on the average person and small business.
I bring compassion and accountability with me to the Governor's office.
It's the way we stay out of each other's business, but are right there ready to help when it hits the fan.
Stopping the privatization of our prison system.
Putting people in jail should never be a for profit endeavor.
When there is a financial incentive to keep people in the system there is no way out.
These are peoples lives.
The next step is to create a REAL reentry program that helps people get educated, employed and living with a sense of self worth and work ethic.
Well...I say we are going to win!
That's why I'm in this race.
We've literally put everything we have in this campaign.
Myself, my family, my friends and my wonderful all volunteer team... we believe in it.
It's Our Time!
I would say Sandra for her playing the game with integrity and pretty much on her own, both times.
Battling sleep deprivation, starvation, endless challenges and conniving backstabbers... Then there was my time on Survivor.
Neither.
I wouldn't hurt any animal.
Especially something as special and unique as a duck sized horse or a horse sized duck.
But if I was still on Survivor and lost the last challenge for a steak... that's a horse of a different breed.
10 seconds after the intro...but instead of beating up on my poor TV, I would probably just change the channel ;)
Thank you for standing up and taking on the unsung task of teaching young people.
Teachers should be held up as our heroes!
First thing I'm going to do as Governor is cut 10 to 20% from the administration portions of our education budget.
I will then redirect that money back into the classroom.
We need more teachers, better pay for teachers, smaller class sizes and new technology.
Then I'm going to END the I-STEP!
Teachers should be teaching to the student not to a test.
We need to show our youth that life isn't multiple choice, it's an essay.
Both Dr. Bennett and Mrs. Ritz have a passion for education.
They go about it different ways, but are both truly committed to educating Hoosiers.
I just hope they both will drop any support for Common Core.
We can't keep putting people in jail for hurting themselves.
A state study just came out showing that our prisons are over capacity and we'll need to build more.
Instead of doing that...
I think we need to change the way we handle drug addiction.
It's a medical condition, not a crime.
Let's get through this race before we start planning the next one ;)
The bumper sticker...
So you want me to subsidies both your bumper sticker and the postage to send it to you???
Ok, just this once.
You should vote for me because you are "disgusted" by the major parties.
Nothing changes if you don't vote for the change.
If you like my policies, how I approach things and my sense of personal responsibility...then you should use your vote as a loud voice demanding change in the system.
Tesla Armada rocked it that night!
I think Gov.
Daniels has had some ups and some really big downs.
Our state isn't broke (we actually have a $2.7 billion surplus), but the way he's kept the state in the green is a little dishonest.
Saying we are going to be short and cutting $300 million from the budget (for local schools, libraries, public safety and roads) just to find $288 million laying around in a bank account?
I think you answered the second one yourself.
I'm no corrupt, not a career politician and I carry a copy of the US Constitution (and now Indiana, too) in my back pocket.
Thank you so much!
I think it got boring when it went from being a battle against yourself to a battle against others.
It's not Survivor anymore, now it's Conniver.
Empower, Fund and Choice
Educate, Deregulate and Promote
HIP, Hybrid-Exchange and Community
Reentry, Educate and Employ
Constitution, Fairness and Equality
No way do I want to be a career politician!
When I leave office after 8 years of service to Hoosiers I'll still be doing what I always... advocate for youth and community empowerment programs.
Two 4 year terms is all you can do as Governor.
The first thing we MUST do is change the way we deal with non-violent offenders.
We need to stop locking people up for hurting themselves.
Then we need to create the programs and opportunities that help keep first time offenders from getting stuck in the revolving door of the criminal "justice" system.
If we help you learn how to go out and make a legal living the state will save lives and money.
We can spend a little today or $50,000+ a year when someone becomes a career criminal.
I think that was the after party for Indy visit of the Libertarian Presidential candidate, Gov Gary Johnson.
I liked Tesla Armada, too.
I wake up every morning by 7am and head out to work with the young men in my mentoring program.
Then I head downtown to the campaign HQ and meet with staff, make calls and go over the day.
Then I'm on the road, traveling the state, until 11 to 12 at night.
But...
I would love to sleep in if I could.
Of course there is a place for third parties in the US elections.
Our society has been divided between left and right ways of thinking for far too long.
We need other options and other voices that better represent the people.
In my race, I have been able to set the tone for many, mostly ignored, issues.
In this election I've helped give a voice to small towns and the forgotten people on the edges of society.
Hands down Heros and Villians was the hardest season... in the first hour I broke three bones in my foot.
Ouch!
But I still stayed in there in played the game for 36 days.
Thank you so much!
Being on Survivor gave me a chance to show the world who I am and what we Hoosier boys can do.
I think people saw in me honesty and integrity, even when I was beat down and starving.
I've been able to be for 48 years here's to the next 48 and hopefully 8 of them as Governor of Indiana.
If by some chance I'm not elected as Governor, this time, I have already pledged to a few Marriage Equality groups that I will campaign against HJR.

