Alan is a crazy man. He just all of a sudden gets this crazy look in his eyes and I just, uh-- his drama and everything that he causes is I think maybe not worth his strength. Just, you know, a loose cannon like that kinda rocks the ship.
In the firehouse, it’s all about getting things done and taking care of business. So I’m out fishing, trying to get some food on board, and, uh, kind of just one step at a time and go from there. You know, I’ve never really been super big into drama or the confrontational type or anything like that, so, uh, you know, if I can get some fish, some lobster, things like that, and make sure everybody’s got a full belly, I think everyone should be happy and, you know, taken care of. The other night at Tribal, Ash and I got called out as the power couple. That label sucks. I don’t see ourselves as a power couple at all. We’re not dating. We’re not hooking up. We’re not doing any of that type of stuff. I mean, if we’re a power couple, I mean, might as well hooking up and being a couple. You know what I mean? Might as well take advantage of everything. So Ash and I’s, uh, connection, I think is kinda more on the backburner right now. But in the firehouse, you know, that’s kinda, you know, what, you know, what my profession is, you know, staying calm in emergency situations. I might not be the guy out there talking strategy to everybody, but I know that I need to clean my rep up a little bit and kinda straighten things out.
I don’t like to be in the limelight that much, but, uh, I mean, in this case, it’s just good for my game, because bottom line is they need me, 100%. Without me there’s no way they would be able to get through any challenge. No way.
Well, today’s Immunity Challenge, uh, didn’t go so well, but losing for us right now, is just not a big deal. Ali is next, and she has nothing she can do about it. Simple as that.
I got to eat second, but I wouldn’t mind going last, so-- just because if anything was leftover, you got to finish it off, but, uh, you just want to make sure that everybody gets their fair share and it all works out. You know, all in all, you know, by no means was I, uh, fat and happy, but it just is what it is. You take your portion and leave it for the next person. If they eat more then that’s on them, you know?


At the end of the day, we would have to vote each other off. We would probably get in a fight, because we're so competitive with everything, whether that's CrossFit or working out or something stupid in the backyard or something like that. We're just competitive 100 percent of the time, which is great. It brings out the best in us. It pushes that person to be that much better.
As much as people know that I'm coming out here, they think it's a great experience. It's a great opportunity. It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity type of thing.
I wouldn't say I'm a huge Survivor fan. There are some people who are over the top with it. I just say I've been kind of watching the show as I've been growing up, and as the shows have progressed through it all. I always thought it would be very cool. I'm a super outdoorsy type of guy, and things like that. So I was like, hey! This would be a great opportunity to do that. And I finally got that opportunity to come onto the show. Here I am. Here I am talking to you. And it's exciting! Super exciting.
It's a game that has no rhyme or reason. It's ever-changing from episode to episode. As soon as you think you have things figured out, there's a twist or things don't go your way. There's no one way to play it. Every time you get with a group of people, they create their own environments. It's like the Lord of the Flies book, you know what I mean? Every group of people is so different. You can't say, OK, you played it like this this time and it worked, but when you play it this way with a different group of people with different backgrounds and experiences … I think the game's going to have to be played different. You have to buy into their backgrounds and things like that and work it, and at the end of the day, use it against them and use it to come out on top.

So when, uh, Jeff told us that we were officially merged, it was like a big relief, you know? It’s like, “oh, we, uh, we made it here finally”. It was nice, it was nice to finally make to that, to that stage of the game. So in Survivor, to, uh, to make the merge is, uh, you know, a big accomplishment you know?
You know, normally you know, with the merge feast and what not it’s, uh, you know, it’s sth pretty good and, uh, this time Jeff told us it was gonna be Outback Steakhouse, and I love steak, and you know, it was, uh, I didn’t know what, what to think you know
This is, just, this is unbelievable, you know, like its just, uh, like, uh, everybody’s so hungry and what not and its just, uh, just amazing to be able to sit down and, uh, you know have a nice big piece of steak.

Damn, blindside? Yeah. A couple people flipped, happy trails to them, hopefully they go further in the game than I. Survivor is, you know, all about timing and they beat me to the punch. Looking big picture I think they pulled that trigger way too quickly. Life's a journey. Sometimes you win some, sometimes you lose some and, uh, they got me good. It is what it is.

What's new in the world of JP… well, right now, I'm training to be a paramedic. I'm going through that program. I'm about halfway done. That's kind of my number one priority right now, getting through paramedic school, seeing it through, making sure I do well, and come out on the end.
I've been a fireman, and after you've been a firefighter for so long, the department actually sends you through paramedic school, because that's what they need: paramedics to go out there and help better serve the community.
Ah, I have to say, it was a little bit nerve-racking! I knew it was coming and everything, but when I sat down to watch the show, I kept wondering: "How's the episode going to go? How's it going to be portrayed," and whatnot. I knew the blindside was coming. It was really kind of cool to see the other side of it all, how the other people were going off and stabbing you in the back and how it all went down and how the plan got formulated — how it all worked out in the end. It was nerve-racking and I was nervous, but in the end, it was nice to see how everything played out.
At first, I didn't have any idea [I was being targeted] at Tribal until we were sitting there and my first name came up. It just clicked. I knew it was me. And I knew it: "Damn, those four went away and started talking and everything started changing." Ben had been with them, and Ben and I both knew that we couldn't go to the end together and one of us was going to have to get voted out. It was just a matter of using each other to get as far as we could, but sooner or later one of us was going to flip on the other. Even though he didn't write my name down, he was still part of the plan. And they got Joe and Doctor Mike to go ahead and throw down some more votes, and that's how it all worked out. But hey, I have to take my hat off to them, right?
You know, I'm not 100% too sure why they came after me. The only thing I can come up with is the physical threat part of it, only because as the game gets further on and you win immunity once or twice, all of the sudden you make it through two more Tribals and you're on the side of an alliance that people need, and if you make it through one or two more, suddenly you're in the final three. I think they figured they would cut me while they can. Good job to them.
My whole path towards the end was probably sitting there with Ryan and Chrissy. I thought that was a great final three to go there with, because we're all different. Different backgrounds, and we all played a lot differently. I thought it would be a good middle of the road [combination], where everyone has their strengths and weaknesses, where it's not just one-sided.
Just because we both have the Hero role. He was a marine and I'm a fireman. We both probably consider ourselves likable people and whatnot. We both couldn't go to the end. There was going to come a point in the game where either he needs to be voted out or I need to be voted out. He took the first step, and he got me voted out. He did a great job. Great gameplay by him.
ou know, I think it did. Especially with me being a firefighter, and being portrayed as a firefighter on the show. A lot of people think of firefighters as professionals who always do the right thing, who are always morally straight, who come off as a good person. That's something I tried to carry with myself throughout the show. That's the type of person I am. I wanted to carry that throughout the show.
Yeah, exactly. I did kind of feel that way. I wasn't just representing myself. I was wearing the T-shirt of my department, so I'm not only representing myself, I'm representing the department that I work for, you know? At the end of the day, some things in life are bigger than you. That's how I felt going into it.
You know, like that, on the TV show, it was only a quick couple of minutes. But him and I went down there and we talked for like twenty or thirty minutes. Then we came back up. And then we wound up going back down to the beach, and Ashley came down. We were down there for another thirty minutes. What do I have to do to get this guy off my back? (Laughs.) He was relentless! I didn't know what to do. So, you know what? Screw it. If you don't believe me, buddy, let's find out if [the idol is in my pants] or not. Sure enough, it wasn't there.
I think he was. (Laughs.) I think he was a little shocked that I was willing to go to those measures. But hey, in the end, I stepped up to the plate, proved my point, and we got on with it.
Initially, on that first tribe, we were two younger people who were pretty much the same age. We both grew up on the beach and had a lot of similar interests. She's a lifeguard, I'm a fireman. It's very easy for all of the people who were a lot older than us to think we would just buddy up. Obviously, when we're sitting there and talking, we didn't know each other well but we have similar interests and we get along and do a lot of the same things, so it was easy to look like we were talking more than anybody else. Obviously, when you go out with a group of people and you relate to somebody more, you're going to gravitate toward them and talk with them more than somebody else. That's just how it started to go. In the beginning, we would work together and whatnot. It worked out for a while.
In the end? A little bit. At the same time, we both spent a lot of time apart when we went to our second tribes. Anytime there's movement and whatnot, you just hope that relationship and alliance is still there, but ultimately we know how fast this game changes. It changes so fast that she moved on and met people she felt she could better align with and have closer relationships with. I didn't rekindle it as much as I thought I should have when we got to the merge. It just dwindled on from there. She didn't know where I was at and I didn't know where she was at, so it just kind of got left like that, I guess.
In the very first Heroes tribe, at first, I didn't know what to think. I'm younger, she's a little bit older, I didn't really know how to relate. Toward the end of that, we were starting to get along — and then, boom, we went over to our second tribe, and here we are: we're Heroes, and we have to stick together. It worked out great. Between her and Ryan, I would say she was probably my strongest alliance member up until the point that I got voted out.
You know, he and I actually had a couple of really good moments together on the beach together on our second tribe. I started getting to know Ryan very well. We complimented each other both very well in the game, as far as I could really do the physical part of it, but he was a lot smarter with parts of the challenges and also just gameplay. He understood the game very well, a lot better than I did. The more I got to know him, the more I found out that he would be a good guy to latch onto. He knows the game and he understands the game, and I might be able to learn something from him and carry myself through.
Actually, Joe and I got along! He's a probation officer and so we both have some similar elements of working attributes, so… yeah, at the end of the day, he's a great guy, a great family guy. We got along just fine. He played his game as far as being a little bit louder and starting fights, and things like that. But when I look back on the game, that's almost how you have to play the game. We were all still so brand new to the game that a lot of us played a lot more conservatively. Looking back on it, I wish I was more aggressive and made bigger moves sooner. You can wait, wait, wait, and if you wait for too long, someone makes the move before you, and the game is going to change. You think you're going to change the dynamic of the game too soon, but looking back on it? Screw it. Just go for it, and see what happens. Survivor is one of the craziest games out there. It changes so fast. As soon as you make an alliance, it may flip and change, and it's just like, shit! I should have been the one to do that, you know what I mean?
You know, as far as the seven thing? The seven thing was a fictitious thing. Everyone knew it. It was just a comforting thing where everybody knows we're going to the final seven, but it was always a matter of someone making the move first. I wish I was part of the group that made the move first. I wish I had gone after that a lot sooner. I think I even asked Ryan one time, "Hey, shouldn't we go after Ben or someone like that before the seven?" And he was like, "Well, let's just play it out a little bit longer and get rid of many one or two more people and then go for it." But looking back on it, it's like, screw it! We should have went for it and seen what happens. The game changes, like I keep saying, so fast. You have to make moves and just go for it. There's no right or wrong exact way to play the game. Every group is different, and every group is different on a different day depending on how the challenges go and how the alliances are going. Someone's mad one day or irritable, and then they're not the next, you know what I mean? So…
Yeah, Tribal was definitely a learning experience, going into it. I had the fortune to go to it quite a bit! (Laughs.) With Jeff, it's hard. You want to give him an answer, but then, you kind of don't. I would play the vague card a lot, and he did not like that at all.
He hates that. He hates it! (Laughs.) He wants the drama! He wants you to point people out and call people out and get into it, but it's hard. You ruin your alliance or you ruin your strategy. I just never even thought about that before I played the game, that that's a whole other factor of playing the game — the pressure he's putting on all of us sitting at Tribal. It's a whole other way it goes. It's something I didn't even factor in until I was sitting in the hot seat, and there he is: it's on, and he's coming full force.
You know, I do actually remember that moment. We were out there, standing on the dock, getting ready to jump off. It's when you had to swim out and then jump off of a ladder. She was like, "Oh, JP, I don't know if I'm going to do too well." And I said, "Chrissy, all you need to do is forget about everything, swim your little heart out, you'll make it there and you'll do just fine." She looked at me and was like, "Okay." She went out there, she did it, and afterwards she gave me a big hug. She did great at it. As far as the challenges, you don't want to be the person who always steps up and takes charge of everything. You just gotta go with the group's consensus, and if they look at you and ask for advice, that's the time to step up. If they buy into it, then cool, here we go, let's do it. Fortunately for me, for a lot of the challenges, I did pretty well in them. The slingshot one, a couple of the other ones, I was lucky to do really well. Me doing well in some of them allowed me to carry on in the other ones, and people started looking at me for advice on what we should do in the challenges.
Yeah, absolutely. I grew up in the ocean. I love the ocean. Having that experience of getting out there into that Fijian warm water every single day and spear fish and bring fish in… granted, I would have liked to eat every single fish by myself. (Laughs.) That's just not the type of person I am. At the end of the day, it is a game, but I know that if I'm hurting very bad, those other people are hurting just as bad. A little bit of food goes a long ways. It sucks that at the end of the day, they're still gonna vote you off! The last day, I think I caught five or six fish. I came in with a full belly and everyone was able to have some fish, too — then, sure enough, I was gone. Like you're saying, though, some of my best moments were when I was out there in the water with the reefs, swimming out and spear-fishing. Another thing is that there's no lights or anything out there, so I really remember looking out at the stars at night. I couldn't even tell you how many stars there were. To describe that, or to take a picture, it would not do it justice.
Having gone through that experience, you really don't need a whole lot in life. You get stripped down of everything. You have a minimal amount of rice, and some basic other things. Taking that home back to this life where everyone has their cell phones and their fancy clothes and their cars and all of that type of stuff… myself, I've always been a pretty minimalist person, and this really reiterated that to me. You don't need all of those fancy things in life. As long as you surround yourself with good people and good friends and you love your family, and you're there for your family? It's the little things like that in life that gets you through it.
