Good, man. As good as I can be for being the first one out of the darn game!
I want to thank you for that question because… No! Darnit! I never even got to play. I never went out on my island. I never got to be with my tribe. I never even walked in to Tribal Council. This was so different from every other time I played “Survivor,” but when you bring someone with you that is more important than the darned game, that’s what happens.
Well, honestly, being out on Redemption Island with Candice… Candice and I don’t have the best relationship in the world. We didn’t even really like each other in “Heroes vs. Villains.” I always said the girl should have been on the “Villains” side. But honestly? I tried to stay away from Candice as much as I could, wait for her to go to sleep and then go out and catch me a few lobsters, catch me some clams, get me some fish, cook it up real quick on the fire and get it eaten before the girl wakes up.
Oh gosh yes! There were these cool little lobsters. They were small little lobsters, maybe four or five inches long, but they were everywhere. You could go out there and grab these things if you were quick. I grabbed two or three of them, put maybe an inch of water in the pan, got it boiling real quick, throw ’em in, you could cook ’em in three or four minutes and have then eaten before the girl ever knew what was going on.
I had already had it in my head that Redemption Island is probably not going to play into my strengths. It’s not going to be an endurance challenge, because they don’t want it to last for hours and hours. It’s not going to be a strength challenge, because I’m going up against girls and people that are not as strong as I am. It sure can’t be the swimming or the physical. When I saw that it was a balance and an eyesight challenge, the two things that I’m not as good at as I get older… My eyesight is a little off and my balance is a little off. In a few months I’m going to be 50 years old going up against these 20-something-year-old kids. But I have to say that if I would have just calmed myself down, I could have done better. Watching that on TV, I was so freaked out before I walked into the game. I started going through my previous times in “Survivor.” I’ve won a lot of Reward challenges, but I have never won an Individual Immunity challenge. I kept playing that out in my head. I tried to get it out, but I had myself so freaked out before I walked into Redemption Island and I couldn’t calm down.
You know, 10 years ago when I went out on “Pearl Islands,” the pirate adventure, I was 39 years old. I was in some great shape. I might have been 265 pounds, but I was pretty tough. Then I did “All-Stars” back-to-back. I was the first one to do back-to-back and I did even better. I made it 10 days longer in a game that was harder, with harder players. Then six years go by and I play the game again at 46 and in the first hour of the game I break three bones in my foot and I still stayed 36 days with those bones floating around and in just outrageous pain. At 49 when I went out to play? I wish I would have gotten the ability to go out on the island and actually be involved, because I am now back in a lot better shape than I was when I was 46. I’m back to where I feel like I’m 35 again instead of 49.
I’ve watched that a bunch of times. I keep rewinding that little scenario trying to see why they targeted Laura. The reasons that I can come up with: Everybody knew her name, because everyone knows Laura, all of the Survivors, we all know Laura. And it was not so much again Laura, but I think it was a strike against me.
That’s kinda what I see, really, even though we didn’t know that that first person, that the people we voted out would have the chance to switch with their loved ones. I think it was the Newbie players going after one of the big Returning players.
I was surprised by not only Jeff, but my own tribe! If you noticed, they didn’t even move out of my way. I had to push my way through my tribe with them begging me to stay, with them telling me, “No, don’t trade.” And I looked at them and said, “Are you kidding? Of course I have to trade. I’m sorry, but she’s tough, too.” Before we out on the island, Laura and I talked about how this had the potential of destroying relationships or empowering them and making them even strong. I’m glad that our relationship is even stronger. There’s no way I could do any other choice but to trade places with Laura. I don’t understand. I mean, Jeff should have known straight off the bat, I’m trading.
We talked about that a little bit. Laura and I talked about, you know, I’m sure they’re gonna get us to a point sometime in the game where we have to decide about, “Are we gonna vote out our loved ones or not?” I mean, there’s only going to be one winner and it’s probably not gonna be couples making it all the way to the end. They’re gonna separate people. But we didn’t think it would happen right off the bat. We thought we were gonna go out there and be playing together. When they dropped us off on the little deserted areas sprinkled around this island and Laura and I got to spend that first night together, I thought, “Oh my gosh! This is gonna be my favorite ‘Survivor.’ I get to go through this experience with the person  I love!” And then Jeff says, “Why are you all smiling? You guys are separating.” Ugh. That was tough.
I had told Laura before we ever went out, “It doesn’t matter what happens, I would never write your name down!” But I know that I am gonna be one of the targets out there. I always am! I told her, “If we’ve made it to the Merge, if we’re down and they start targeting me, it’s really OK. You stay in that alliance and you target me with them, because only one of us is going to make it to the end.” And I would never have any bad feelings about my wife writing my name down. If it made her game stronger, write my name down, even though she told me there’s no way she’d ever write my name down unless it’s for the million dollars.
Oh yes! You know, there are a lot of people out there that understand that it is just a game, but I tell you what… When you go out there and you play that game, when you go through such deprivation, such dehydration, malnutrition, just being beaten down, it’s amazing how the emotions start coming out. Really, it’s going to get to the point where even just seeing your loved one is going to bring… I mean, we’ve already seen it last night when the Newbies came back and all the Returning players were sitting there in Redemption Island Arena and they start crying because their loved ones are still there! The emotions in this game… I tell people all the time, sometimes you even forget about the million dollars and you just want to feel OK. The new players will be in that situations. The returning players, they know that. It’s such a mental trip to go on that I have to say that I’m sad that I didn’t get a chance to play, but I’m thrilled that my wife is still in that hunt for a million dollars. And for anybody out there that doesn’t stand up and trade and that does look at themselves as, “I’ve got a better chance, so I’m gonna take that,” hopefully it doesn’t destroy their relationship.
When I left “Heroes and Villains,” I said, “I really want to play at least one more time, but let’s do it before I turn 50.” I’m getting older and the game is getting harder. Now, shoot, in January I’m gonna be 50 years old, but I’m also in better shape. I would love to go out there and play the game one more time and actually get on the tribe, get onto the island, get into the game and show that 27 years in the mental health field have not gone to waste. I’m pretty good at manipulating.
I was sure hopeful, and I wanted Russell to believe that I believed him, but no. I looked at Colby right afterward and I said, “You know it’s still just you and I.”
Russell is one of the most evil people I have ever met. He is the epitome of the manipulative, self-centered kind of guy who just looks at people for what he can get out of them. I tried to show them that when you use people to get to the top that you’re still never going to be a winner.
I was crying just watching the video and thinking about her being there. This is the first anniversary that we haven’t spent together, so that was like our anniversary celebration. That was a big deal. I have to say, even though it’s only thirty days it feels like a lifetime because of all the craziness going on. Everything is intensified.
I don’t know that Laura will ever be a contestant. We’ve talked about being on “The Amazing Race” but the “Family Survivor?” My wife and daughter would not really be too happy to be out there playing “Survivor.”
If you go out there as a complete good guy you’re not going to win the game. But you have to show that you don’t have to be such an evil villain. It does matter how you treat yourself and the people around you. And when you’re using and manipulating everyone, of course you’re going to be seen as a villain. But, I’m no angel. I went to some people and said, “They’re coming to get you.” That’s part of the game.
I finally found out after I was voted out, it wasn’t just one broken bone in my toe, it was two broken bones in my toe, and the toe we were taping it off to was broken also! I am out of my mind in pain every day on “Survivor.” When my toe was looking back at me, and I straightened it and taped it off to another broken toe, I was in more pain than I’ve ever felt in my entire life.
Even my daughter when she’s watching it on TV says, “Oh Dad, you looked a little mad last night.” And I told her, it’s not that I’m mad, I’m just in pain. I’m a little shorter with my “Survivor” cast mates. The pain in my toe definitely affected my attitude.
Oh my God! My wife and daughter were so proud of me. And they never showed it, but I never said I had the hidden immunity idol. I wasn’t being a big liar about it. But I made sure everyone saw the big rock in my pocket. That was a great moment in our household.
Mean cougar.
I want to say good guy, but I’ll say good soft guy. Cause he was kinda soft.
Toughest man I’ve ever met.
Sweetest Survivor in history.
A little girl who’s used to batting her eyes and getting what she wants.
Glad she was gone before me.
Not what you think.
Silly…silliest move ever!
Evil…pure evil.
That I’m still tough. I’m 46 years old, but I’m still the tough guy on “Survivor” and it still counts how you play the game. My kids love seeing that.
Most of the contestants knew who I was. They are very big Survivor fans and watch Survivor US on the internet and on TV in their own countries.
It was very interesting to hear about the Israeli culture. They are very high energy, exciting men and women and they reminded me of my buddies and friends back home.
Of course I was worried about being the first person voted out. But I also remember the pain of Survivor, and if you can help eliminate some of that pain, you are looked at as a benefit to the tribe.
I spent the first million dollars in a matter of weeks. But I met life goals with it. $277,000 went to charity. Only part of that went to Rupert's Kids. My daughter got her college fund. My family got out of debt and the government got a check for $487,000.
If I am lucky enough to win a second million dollars, I am sure I would do exactly the same thing.
I was the first Survivor ever to do back to back Survivors. Yes, it was hard on my body and my mind.
Now that I have had six years in between Survivors, I plan on going back out there with all the gusto I can muster. I like being me!
That is one amazing combination of strength and Survivor knowledge. I would hope we are dominant in all of the challenges. I know I'll show my strength and value. I hope everyone else can.
I have trained all of my life in the school of hard knocks. I show the younger generation how working hard every day can build your muscles, your body and your mind.
What Colby and I were doing there, we had the chance to get Russell by himself -- the three girls had just gone off to their Reward Challenge with their loved ones -- and Russell was just fuming back at camp.
That's when Colby and I jumped all over that, saying, "You realize Russell those three women are going to eliminate you. As soon as they get Colby out, they're going to get you out. You're not making it to the final Tribal Council. The only way guaranteed you can make it to final Tribal Council is to take Colby and I. You know whole-hearted that we want you there."
It's not that I had such a great alliance or trust with Russell. But it was that last-ditch effort. Just like the rock in my pocket. I'm trying to come up with any kind of anything that can help me make one more day.
The entire season. I thought I was going to be able to come back because there were so many times where if my team would have just stayed to the plan we would have been the Heroes in the final Tribal Council instead of having Villains in the final Tribal Council.
I thought I had this whole season. I knew when I was walking into that last Tribal Council that I was probably on borrowed. When I looked into the camera, I really thought this one was mine.
What I was trying to show Russell was, "Look, even these women that you say you're in an alliance with, they don't even take you out to go out with loved ones." It was only Russell and I that had wives and they didn't let anyone of us stay with our wives. "Russell, if they really thought anything about you they would have given that Reward with your wife. That should prove it to you."
I was almost banking on it. That's what I told Russell, I looked him right in the eye and said, "Guaranteed, you are my guy in the Final 3. Colby, Russell and I. That's all I want. I don't want any of the other Villains. You're the best Villain out there. If you want to show that you are the toughest and at the top, you take the best with you, right Russell? If you think you really deserve to win this, you should take Colby and I. So align with us and make sure you get there."
I still kind of doubt that. They just would have switched from voting me out to voting Colby out if I had instead won Immunity.
I talked to Russell and I talked to Sandra. Jerri was so against me. I think that still all goes back to when we played All-Stars together. She still hates the shelter that I built that she blames for that she helped build too!
One-hundred percent. When I went to Russell and said, "Sandra and the girls are trying to get you out of here," I was going to... That was... Let me think how I can lay this out. When Sandra came to me first and said she wanted to get Russell out, I agreed with her 100%. We went to Tribal Council and she still said she was writing Russell's name down. Of course she wrote mine.
With Sandra, I never really knew where to believe her at. Now with the Tribal Council right before when they voted Danielle out, I had kind of helped perpetuate the fight between Danielle, Parvati and Russell. I was hoping that I could continue that fight and that distrust in the Villains mind where, "See Russell, these women are trying to put you out." I had already exhausted every opportunity with Sandra, trying to convince Sandra to stop siding with him and go up against him.
Oh, 100%. When I put the rock in my pocket, I thought the Hidden Immunity Idol was still out there but it was just so well hidden that nobody had found it.
One-hundred percent. If I would have known Sandra had that Hidden Immunity Idol, I would most-definitely went to her saying, "If you're really serious, this is your time to get Russell out."
I had no clue. Candice had came to me 100% on our side.
Looking back on it, I realize there were some signs. But when you're out there in the game there's so much going on -- you're so hungry and you're so tired and you're so thirsty and so beat up -- I could not believe that Candice was going to side with Russell. As much as she hated Russell and talked so bad about him, then she went over to side with him? I couldn't believe it.
I have to say, with Tom and Stephanie, we would get back from a challenge and they would be beating up the rest of the tribe for how bad we did. I would look at them and say, "Instead of beating others, instead of blaming others, we need to look at ourselves." People don't like always when they are confronted with the truth.
Tom would look at James and say how mean and bullyish he is, but then turn right around and look at me and say, "You know the only reason you're still out here is because we've got you and we're taking care of you." There was a lot of egos out there.
I was going through it with not just one broken bone in one toe, but two broken bones in one toe and the toe they were taping it off to was also broken! So a lot of pain. I was a little shorter tempered but I also tried to be that motivator and that one that empowered us. Some of our team didn't always like that.
You know, I had the opportunity to stay with the Morgan tribe, and I probably should have. They were the more honorable tribe. They may have been a little more lazy, but that was because of their leadership, I think. I tried to lead by example, so everyone had to keep up with me. On their tribe, they didn't really have good leadership, so I think if I had gone over there, or stayed over there when I had the chance, my game would have been a lot better.
On the Drake tribe, there was no way that Shawn, Burton, and Michelle were going to let me be the "official leader". They were the leading group. Shawn thought he was the leader, Burton thought he was the leader, and Michelle thought she had them both wrapped around her finger. It worked okay for us, only because I let them think they were leaders. For the other tribe, they picked the best of the bunch (laughs), but even still - sometimes, like Jeff said, sometimes societies kill their leaders, but in their case, it might not have worked at all for them to "kill" their leader and try someone else.
You know, even though Jonny Foreskin was a pain in the butt, they never really showed the nicer side of the guy. He was a great gameplayer, and a great manipulator, and a real pain in the butt, but he also had a nice side. He was my little budy through most of the game, and I never realized what a conniver he was. But they never showed that side of Jon. The for the most part, the rest were pretty accurately portrayed. Darrah - shy and quiet. Tijuana, argumentative. Savage and RyanO, both good guys, but better followers than leaders. Shawn, Burton, and Michelle, the jocks and cheerleaders that thought they were a little better than everyone else. Christa, Sandra, and I who kind of went through and played the worker bees. And Sandra, especially, getting through her game playing the opinionated little Puerto Rican girl, she did great! Everybody was portrayed pretty accurately.
Christa, she proved that she was the next toughest dude out there. When the strength challenges came up, she was always right up there, ranking with the guys. I liked Christa a lot. She got a bad rap from Survivor, but she was a pretty good girl. She was very good.
It was close. When I saw Christa and Sandra say "we've got to do something about Rupert," that felt kinda bad. But you've got to remember that it is a game, and even though Sandra and Christa were on my side 100%, I don't blame them for not wanting to bring me to the Final 2. I think I would have beaten either one of them. I think I would have beaten anyone in a Final 2. But, you've also got to remember that it was Sandra and Christa that saved me. If they wouldn't have been privy to the information that Trish and Jon were spewing, I would have been gone.
When Sandra cast that vote, Sandra, Christa, and I had agreed all along that it was going to be a vote for Darrah. There were going to be seven of us voting for Darrah. Unfortunately, that's not the case, and Sandra just wanted to write Jon's name down. I wish it would have worked out different. But if it would have been a 4-4 tie, Sandra would have killed me there, writing down Jon's name. But as it worked out, just Christa and I voted for Darrah, and with the exception of Sandra, everyone else voted for me anyway.
I hated seeing that side of me coming out. The selfish Rupert was coming out. it was my spear, my tribe, my island, my adventure. I didn't like seeing that side of me. Sitting back, watching on TV helped me understand that that's not who I really want to be. And saying that I just got worn down and got a little selfish is not a good enough excuse for me. That bothered me so much, it made me a lot better at sharing. Because I didn't like that cocky Rupert at all.
Seeing the way I was acting on TV definitely explained a little bit of why they had to get rid of me. If I would have found somebody that cocky in the game, I would have been targeting them, too.
When we merged, after the big meal, I went to Andrew and RyanO, and said "you guys can pick either Darrah or Tijuana, and get with Sandra, Christa, and I, and whichever you don't pick, we'll all vote them off as a sign of good faith. Because I don't want to put the Drakes down, I want to be able to trust you guys - you know I'm trustworthy. We'll all help each other out, and we'll be 3 and 3." They did not want to do that. They wanted us to vote Jonny Foreskin out. I didn't want to do that, I didn't want to put us down, I couldn't trust them enough. The last 2 minutes before Tribal Council, Andrew came back to me and said "Okay, I'll give you Tijuana." I told him it was too late. We'd already made the plans to vote Andrew out, we'd already turned Lill and gotten her to vote with us. I gave Andrew and RyanO the opportunity very first, and they turned me down. I would have loved to have been in an alliance with those two, but they didn't want to do it my way until they had no other options, and by then it was too late.
I was thinking that the final 4 would be Sandra, Christa, and I, and probably Andrew Savage. Sandra might have been out, and RyanO might have been in there.
It's still amazing to me. To read all the fan mail, all the letters and the Christmas cards have been wonderful. I'm still answering letters from November, I haven't even gotten to December yet. I get so much fan mail, it's wonderful. It's wonderful. I love it. It's like a dream.
Every once in a while I get on the internet, but I've been so swamped with letters that I spend most of my time answering those. I try to answer 20 or 30 letters a day, and I get in way more than that a day right now. So I'm way behind, and I haven't gotten on the internet much. I love getting into discussion boards and reading what everyone says about me. Every once in a while when I can get away from the letters, I do love getting on-line and seeing that.
I was waiting all the way through the game. I wanted to hear someone say something about the shoes, and I never did through the whole game. I couldn't ask about it, or say anything about taking them. Then, when the first episode aired, still no one said anything about them. I had to wait until the reunion show, and at the reunion show, Andrew said "I wondered what happened to those darn shoes!" It's the only time anyone ever said anything, it's so funny. But hey, it was a pirate adventure, and I started mine early.
There was no way, when I got taken over there and they were so happy about winning, no way I would ever have told them we threw the challenge. They were happy that I sat out, and they couldn't understand why I sat out. I told them that I wasn't happy about it, it was just our rotation. There's no way I would have told them. I didn't want to hurt them, and I sure didn't want to do it when I had to spend two or three days with them.
Luckily, during the first few days, they didn't show my weaker side. I'd sit up at night and just be freaked out and pissed off that I let Shawn and Burton and Michelle make fun of me all day. I went out there, and after a few days, the gruff exterior of Rupert got stripped away, and I was down to the scared little fat kid. And it took the twelve days in Jury camp for me to realize why I went back to the Drake tribe that didn't treat me too well, instead of staying with the Morgan tribe that genuinely treated me great. Figuring out my comfort level was more being told I was "not". Survivor has built my confidence so it's not so much of an act any more. I used to be a great actor of self-confidence, until I got questioned about it, then I'd run away. I don't run away any more. I believe in myself a whole lot more now.
When I'm mentoring the kids, having that understanding of being the kid that doesn't fit in, and that never really let that go... You know, I'm going to be 40 years old in a couple of weeks, and I still carry that around. And that makes it a lot easier for me to understand my kids that don't fit in, either. And they see that in me. We call ourselves misfits. I call myself a misfit - I would never call one of them a misfit. But now I feel like I fit in a whole lot more.
You know, on TV, it showed me finding it in about 5 minutes. It took four and a half hours or swimming non-stop in a grid pattern! Shawn didn't know where the hell he lost it. He was totally lying through that whole scenario. He had no idea where he lost it. When he showed me, he said "somewhere between the rocks and the trees," he showed me an area that was the whole inlet. It's monstrous! And so, four and a half hours to find that darn spear head.
I'm so happy that I was able I was able to be involved for ten years and I love the darn game! Survivor will test you to your core. Just last year, I ran for governor of Indiana. I like a challenge! They asked if I wanted to play again and I said of course. Then they asked if I wanted to bring a loved one. I gave them different people and I didn't say my wife right away because I knew it would help and hurt to take somebody like that but she said, "I wanna play!"
No regrets. I'm trying to hold the tears back as I leave the game I love, but I was able to rescue my wife.
I really don't think so. She's stronger than me, she's a better swimmer than me, she's a better puzzle builder than I am... and now she's a free agent! She'll be able to be that pawn that they can use. I watched Sandra win the game twice as she said, "I'll vote for anybody as long as it's not me!"
Life on Redemption Island was irritating, to say the least. Candice and I have not had the best relationship in the past. We didn't even really like each other on Heroes Vs. Villains but she got used to me doing everything. I didn't do that on Redemption Island. I would wait for Candice to go to sleep this time before I did anything!
You know... I never thought I would be the first one out. When I went into Redemption Island, I already had it in my head that it wasn't going to play to my strengths. I said to myself, "It's going to be probably not going to be a good challenge for you." I saw it was balance and eyesight and those are my two weaknesses, honestly, as I get older. I needed my glasses!
I've said for years that they're giving them too much food and stuff! I like the old game... in All Stars, they gave us a machete and a pot and said good luck. There was nothing! If you couldn't catch it, you didn't get it. That honestly made the game more of a Survivor style game. When you give them enough food and supplies, saws and hammers, it makes it so it's not as physically demanding so it turns it into a social game. It's not Survivor, it's Conniver.
Being able to be that one that floats. It shows you're not as tied to your loved one as you are to your tribe. When Brad stepped up and said, "I would feel bad if I beat my wife because I want her to win," that is going to come back and haunt him. You've got to be able to show that, like Laura said, you're a free agent.
I've been running my program for 23 years. I'm opening another chapter in a town, outside of Indianapolis, in Shelbyville. We're gonna put the vocational education back in the public schools and a re-entry program in the detention centers and with no public funding. We're going to change this community!
I LOVE THE GAME!
I want to make sure that everybody sees that I’m taking care of you. If I can do that, I can make it through the first few votes, I’m solid.
making you feel like I care, which I do–it’s not just an act, but in the game, I care a little more about myself than normally, and I will maneuver people if it helps me get further in the game.
My wife let me know as I was walking out the door, “Your one weakness is that you believe people, you believe in people, you want to show the best side of people, you want to help encourage that side. So in the game, try not to trust people. … That’s where my game will differ a little, because I won’t blindly trust anyone this time. I can’t.
I’m not going to start working out like crazy and beating yourself up.
my preparation is doing the research and the mental game. … There’s very few real, true good times out there, and there’s a whole lotta hard times. That’s what I’m trying to prepare myself for, those hard times.
When I went into Survivor, I never in a million years thought at all that I would turn into a celebrity. … It gave me the ability to go run around the world and be me. That’s my new job, I get to run around and be me.
People have no idea who you are, just like they really have no idea who I am. And for them to run up and say they love me or hug me and kiss me and cuddle me and give me their votes–I love it, I will never be tired of people gushing love on me, but I also know that they have their own idea in their head of who I am. And it might be who I am and it might not be, but it doesn’t matter.
When people are just constantly telling you that you’re good, I find it a lot easier just not to believe it. I’m glad you approve, but I’m just me. It would be very easy to buy into it, because for years, and they still do, tell me how great I am or how wonderful. But I do not want to be that guy who thinks they’re any better than anyone else.”
Winning and losing isn’t as important as playing with honor, playing with heart. I was no damn angel. No one can say they did everything right, they didn’t lie or cheat. It’s okay. I played with at least some honor.
Hard and tough, not being any angel. Of course, I’m going to tell lies; there’s not a darn person out there in this world that doesn’t tell a lie. But still playing the game with honor, playing it with respect, being able to show people that it counts. And I hope that I get to do that. My big hope, though? Jeff Probst writing another million dollar check on my back. This one, I’d love to win it myself.
Didn’t know me, so it was easy for me to be quiet and just be a worker. Everybody knows me out here. I can’t be the quiet one out here. I am the out, in-your-face, tough, big, hairy, scary, help-you person.
I want to make sure that everybody sees that I’m taking care of you. If I can do that, I can make it through the first few votes, I’m solid.
I will win Survivor because I am the toughest, the baddest, the most intense player I know.
My family warned me as I’m walking out the door not to just blindly trust everybody. That was my problem in Pearl Islands and that was my problem in All-Stars. I know I’m not just gonna blindly trust anyone.
With a million dollars, a pirate is very happy to adjust in Indiana.
No more sleeping on the bamboo and killing myself, the mattress that we had was a hand-me-down, hand-me-down.
I got a new washer and dryer; I have a wonderful dishwasher; I have a guy who mows the lawn.
Choices has stood with me for years when I was on my own, doing my own kids' group, and it about bankrupted me. Choices stepped in, helped me out, gave me kids through the Department of Education and the Department of Corrections, and it was a good match-up. And I always said I'd be with them as long as I could. This makes it so I can be with them forever.
She has retired to help me with the fan mail and the charity requests that we get and then dealing with our charity, Rupert's Kids.
You know, after doing all that and setting my daughter up with the college fund where she can go anywhere in the world when she turns 18, no matter what happens to Laura and I, and paying the government, you know, a million dollars goes very quickly.
I'm making sure that Laura and Raya and I all do
live happily ever after with helping my little group of people around me too.
So it's amazingly good.
There's a few different things out there that we're talking about doing. I'm trying to get back on TV. As long as I can go out there and be myself. I want to be able to be myself, because I know I'm not an actor. I'm just me.
From the time I made my audition tape, I believed in my heart it was my time to win.
This is definitely a pirate adventure.
When I heard there was a pirate theme on "Survivor" seven, I fully believed that 400 years ago, I was one of the pirates out here. The treasure I was never able to go back for.
My tribe saw me as Blackbeard.
We were going to cut my hair and beard. And I was going to be Blackbeard.
After two days, my pants have still not dried. That second day was probably the hardest day ever. I actually begged for a dress.
After I made that dress, Burton and Shawn and Michelle had a hey day with me.
I did not like the first part of the game. It was my hardest time ever.
They wanted the power. Making fun of me in front of others was their downfall.
The one saving grace was, I had the ocean. I honestly loved going fishing. I wasn't the greatest of shots when I first started. But I could still bring a sack of fish home.
I know I was bringing enough food home that when my tribe found the treasure, they were pissed.
The hardest was being away from my wife and kid and the next was being around people I could not trust.
I try very hard every day to show trust and compassion in hopes that they will learn.I tried to play this game with honesty and it was not returned.
I could not believe I would be voted out. I thought there was no way in the world that could happen.
So we start voting. And I believe that it's Darrah. The first three votes were two for Darrah and one for Jon. Then the next vote is for Rupert. And I'm thinking, 'Could this be?' And then the second vote for Rupert and a third and I just put my head down and thought 'Oh my God. This is the end.
At least for 27 days, I showed that I could survive and I could help others. I – survivor - no matter where I am, no matter what I have, and no matter I do. I showed that I have some strength, that I have some worth.
I was hoping, even though I knew there was not much of a chance, the toughest old man I have ever met in my life, Rudy Bosch. We had a great time when we played on All Stars all those years ago.  The one I was really excited to see,  but I never got a chance to play with, was Tyson.  When we played on Heroes and Villains together he was on the villain’s tribe and he should have been on the heroes side.
There is 400 Survivors out there and everybody talks and we all would love to play the game again. I tell people all the time, never set up any alliances before you get out there as you don’t know what they are going to do to us once we get out there. You don’t know who team you are going to be on, what is going to be happening. I always like to go out there fresh and seeing who is on my tribe and in those first few days building that strong alliance. I am that one who is known to build four or five people strong and make it all the way to the end.
Candice and I, our relationship is rocky at best. She is not happy with me and I am not very happy with anything that girl does. I have watched her go against her tribe many times. I knew I was going to have trouble with those two. Gervase, who was there on the very first Survivor, I always wanted to play with him. Tyson, Aras and Monica – there was some very strong players that were all about my age. I think we would have done very well together.
The one thing we did see on Redemption Island was Candice and I first and our first conversation. I was working on the shelter and the roof, so we would have protection from the rain and sun. I looked at her and I said “I am doing this for me, but you are going to benefit from it. There is only one of us to make it out of Redemption Island and don’t look to me to take care of everybody out here as I am going to take care of myself, as I want to be the one to come out of here.” I was not going to help someone else get out of there. We lived together on Heroes and Villains and she was used to me doing all the work and the hunting, making the fire and the gathering of firewood. I was not going to do that on Redemption Island. On the tribe I would do that in a minute.
I liked playing back in Survivor 7 and 8 when like on All Stars they threw us out there with the clothes on our back and said good luck. We went four or five days without fire before we finally were able to make fire. We went days without food as there were not rations of rice. I liked the game back then a little more. It was more “survivor”. Now giving them tools and hammers, nails and saws we would have to battle and win that in a challenge. When I played there was no hidden immunity idols or Redemption Island they just threw sixteen strangers out there and you  played the game. If you find it or catch it you can have it. If you don’t make it you don’t get it. If we went back to the old ways that would mean I would never get to play again but I still love the old ways of Survivor.
When they started talking to us they told Laura and I that we would be playing the game together. I know they have been known to say one thing and do another. Laura and I talked about that, and how this could put us in a situation where we have to decide between each other or our alliances. This could be detrimental to our relationship or it could  be very empowering. We wanted to make sure that the game that it made our relationship stronger and it has.
We talked more about the mental and social game. I wish we had gone out to get a machete and had her practising with the machete. She can use a flint and steel. Before the game she had a little bit of practice but now she is great with the flint. We spent most of our time talking about the social side and the physical side. The pain, it is hard to see how much pain you go through in that game. It can wear you down worse then anything. Once you start feeling that pain you start getting a little more hard to live with. The ones that are hard to live with are usually the first ones out. I wish we had spent more time on the activities.
I would do Survivor again in a second. Even Laura has been bitten by the Survivor bug where she says “Maybe I would even play again”. I told Laura if we go out there together again don’t expect her to give my game up for her anymore.
Not at all. I was thrilled I was able to rescue and protect my wife but I don’t want to do that again.
Laura and I would love to go on The Amazing Race. We love travelling seeing different sights and experiencing different cultures.
As we're out playing the game, I'm sitting, waiting to see who's coming out next and I'm only hoping it's not Laura.
Almost every time that I've ever left Survivor, I've said, 'That was the hardest trip I've ever had in my life, I'm never playing that game again!' And then as days go by, 'Well, I could do it.' And then I start hoping that they call and ask me to play the game again. When they called and asked, 'Do you want to play the game?' I was thrilled. But then they said they wanted me to play with a loved one. Right off the bat, I suggested going with my wife, not playing with my brother, or my cousin.
I never really thought about having people coming at me or try and get me through Laura. Each time I've been out on Survivor, except the very first time, just when you get out there, I just get in, putting in all the work. I'll do the food, I'll clean the food. I never really thought about that. I should have. Plus, not being on the same tribe and them being able to get at me through Laura. But we came together and I had to protect her.
As we're out playing the game, I'm sitting, waiting to see who's coming out next and I'm only hoping it's not Laura.
Well, one of my buddies who's not married was giving me a hard time, saying, 'That was pretty pitiful strategy.' And I told him, 'Depends what you're looking at — what the game is.' In the game of life, that was great strategy. Of course, any time that I can take care of my wife and help her out of with trouble, help her into a place with a little more safety and security — I hope I'm able to do that. I knew that would mean my safety was more in trouble, but I would make the same decision every time. Since my wife has gotten back from playing the game, I asked if she would enter the game again. I heard her say, 'Yes,' she would enter the game again. 'We would both enter the game again. But don't expect me to give up my game for you.'
One of the ways that I was able to be a winner was that I was the winner of a giant fan vote. I never really won the game, I came close every time, except for this one, to getting to the end of the game. I'm the only guy out there who spent 100 days in three games. There are two females that got 100 days but being able to go out there and make the decision to give up the game for my wife, to see how tough she is and how good she is doing, oh my gosh, I love seeing that but it was tough.
I always had a lot of tie-dye. When my wife and I were newlywed, she got a whole ball of my white shirts — my white tank tops that I used to wear during work. I had a lot of white tank tops. She went and tie-dyed all of them to eliminate the stains. So I went from wearing a few tie-dyes to wearing a lot of tie-dye.
I never really thought of myself of having strong political views. In a few years when I run for Governor, I've just been fed up with some of the decisions made by legislation that isn't proven to be working. With Survivor, that helped get my political voice, working with my mentoring program to help change my little community here in Indianapolis. Being able to run for Governor, show my kids in my mentoring program that you can change your world, you do deserve second chances, that it is okay to be yourself. Those were some great lessons that I've learned myself and a few others.
It'll be a few years before I ever run for any other office. I'm sure I will again. But that's one heck of an undertaking. I'd need to recoup and regather. My mentoring program is opening another offshoot in another community about ten miles outside of Indianapolis. We'll bring the vocational training back to high schools, help bring productive re-entry programs with actual work into the detention centers, we lessen the recidivism rate, raise the success rates of high school graduate and through that, limit spending, show how we can do that with resources that we have in the community if we work together. If we can do that in smaller little microcosms, like a community of 40,000 or 50,000 people, then we might spend a few million dollars a year on this system, but we're spending a few billion dollars locking people up. It's a little harder to see that saving in a smaller community, but maybe we can really start changing the numbers and showing what we're doing. We better come up with some changes in this administration soon and in how we treat this problem.
That’s what I think hurt so much, was I let myself believe ever since the rock in my pocket. But oh my gosh, I wouldn’t be able to actually manipulate this to make it to the final three. When the three girls all went out on their reward challenge and left Russell with us, I talked to him and said, “These girls are going to get you, Russell; the only way you can guarantee getting to the final three is with Colby and I.” And I meant it. I would have loved to have taken Russell to the final three.
That’s why I say it was a last-ditch effort. The lie and the rock in my pocket wasn’t working anymore, and I couldn’t get anybody to stand on my side.
You know, Jeff -- I don’t know what to say about Jeff. He called me out in tribal council and said what a silly player I was and said I’d never win the game if I didn’t become more conniverish. And I looked at him and said I’d win the same way I won last time.
I was also going through the game with broken toes. I was the first person to ever go through the game like that. Going through that was so much pain. Every time you took a step on something uneven, you’d feel the pain spike all the way through your foot up into your head. Even my daughter looked at me after one of the episodes and said, “Oh, Daddy, you looked a little mean.” I said, “baby, I am in pain.”
On day two when my tribe looked at me and sat me out of an immunity challenge, looking at me [and] saying Cirie is tougher than you are, I thought there was no way of sitting out of another challenge. My team is not ever going to see me as weak. I stopped talking and thinking about my toe, but unfortunately it didn’t stop hurting.
If I was chopping wood all night long, I would have had to have a whole lot more wood than a couple of logs. The tribe was a bunch of lazy people that did very little work. I would gather wood all day, and they would burn it up all day long. After I chopped up the wood at night, the next day, not one person ever said a word about me bothering them at night. They all came to me in the middle of the night and kept warm and thanked me for having fire. I think Jerri just needed someone to vent at.
In “Survivor,” you have different forms of aggression. You have different game-playing out there -- where somebody like Russell is manipulating everybody around him and making them insanely mad and somebody like Parvati is doing the exact same thing but no one’s mad at her. It’s all in how you do it and what you do. But yes, every person out there is looking at everyone else thinking how they can get them out. It’s a lot of passive-aggressive playing.
After a few hours of search for the idol and I saw nobody -- everybody was still out looking and nobody had said that they had found it. So when two or three hours had gone by, I wanted to make sure that I had some kind of protection to go to tribal council. That’s when I said, this is my last chance. I’ll grab a hold of a rock, I’ll touch it in my pocket.
I always made sure that I had my bag with me or empty, in case they were trying to search my stuff. I would touch it every once in a while in my pocket, like you do with your cellphone to make sure you still have it. And then I looked at Russell and said, “I feel comfortable now, I’m gonna take a nap.” I would never have napped in “Survivor.”
I think until after that first tribal council when I went through and Jeff said, “play your idol” and I fiddled around and crossed my legs. When I got back to camp, they started asking me, and I looked right at them and said, “I’m glad I didn’t waste an immunity idol.” I never said I had one, I just said I was glad I didn’t waste one. After Danielle was voted out, I think Sandra told Parvati.
In my world, I like being considered one of the good guys. Even after I won the million bucks, I gave most of it away. I like showing that it counts how you play the game.
My philosophy and Russell’s philosophies are about as extremely opposite as you can possibly imagine. He thinks about what he can get out of people and how he can benefit from them, and I look at people as how we can help them be better and help them improve their whole world. Being around Russell -- such an evil, arrogant person -- it took a little bit to hold my tongue.
I use that in my mentoring program -- when you use and abuse and manipulate people, you can’t turn around and think anybody is going to respect you. If you do, you are sadly mistaken because that is not the way of this world. Russell understand half of the game, but he doesn’t understand the social game.
Colby is our last hero standing. I hope he can make it to the end and convince those ladies to keep him instead of Russell, but the odds are against him.
I say it all the time: If James hadn’t been hurt, Colby would never had made it so far.
I respect Parvati’s game because Parvati and Sandra both are playing a very manipulative, socially acceptable game and both of them have been targeted from the start.
It’s so good to talk to you. I’ve been watching you on TV for years!
It’s crazy that after being on Survivor four times, I’m the first one out!
I hope they do! That would be wonderful.
When they asked me to play Survivor again, but that I had to bring a loved one, I did not even give them Laura’s name because the game is so hard, the game hurts you, the game beats you down. I gave producers the names of my brother, my cousin and my niece. Then a week went by and Laura said, “Why didn’t you give them my name, I want to play!” I wanted it to be Laura’s choice, I was worried about her but as you’ve seen, she’s pretty darn tough.
When we were talking about playing the game, she talked to me about not trusting everyone like I usually do. And I talked to her about using the strategy of “anybody but me.” That’s how Sandra won the game twice.
Just like the loved ones that voted her out, I think there are a few people on the returning tribe that I have a big of a history with. There’s Tina, who I voted out first in Survivor: All Stars. Tyson and I were against each other in Heroes vs. Villains and I know that he’s still got a bitter taste in his mouth. I’m just hoping that Laura can get in there and show that she’s a good worker and tough in the challenges. She’s a better swimmer, runner and puzzle-maker than I am.
Ever since the first Survivor, I’ve been in love with Survivor. Just like I got to play with Rudy Boesch, the toughest old man I’ve ever met, I wanted to play with Gervais! He was on the very Survivor, that’s what made me fall in love with Survivor. I wanted to play the game with Tina, knowing I had to make it up to her, knowing I voted her out first last time. I would have really liked playing more with Tyson.
Most of my days are spent on my mentoring program, Rupert’s Kids. We are teaching young men how to make a living, have a sense of self-worth and work ethic. We do a lot of landscaping and then in the winter time, we rebuild housing projects. It teaches them how to be electricians, plumbers, carpenters, framers and painters. We teach real life skills. I love spending my day like that.
Laura is going to have to show the returning players tribe that she is tough. They’re going to be hard on her. They’re going to expect her to take my place, if she can do that and also play social-side and be a worker bee, then she’ll have a great chance!
