I never would have thought swimming with my clothes on would have been so hard, but it was. With my big denim jeans, my legs were rubber. It took all I had to keep kicking and getting it to shore. I was spent, and it hadn't even started yet.
When I got to those stairs, I was done. We sit the sucker down, and I needed to rest. The other team, Morgan, came up, sat their stuff down next to us, and all left. This is definitely a pirate adventure. Pirates pillage, pirates steal, pirates take advantage. If they were gonna be silly enough to put it right next to me, I'm gonna put it in my thing. All their trade goods, all the little women's shoes, the insoles. Everything that I could find in theirs, I took. I've always said I will lie, cheat and steal to win this game. There was my stealing. I stole for the Drake.
We are pirates, so we pirated.
Shawn is being a pain in the butt! We're a strong little team, but the dynamic duo there that are posturing for the lead role need to be a little more careful because they're going to make everybody hate them.
Jon, he reminds me of my boys who I mentor who just pop off stupid stuff. You know, talk about getting some honey, or… smoking something, drinking something.
I'm wearing my fancy-- my dress jeans. Suckers were thick and hard and heavy. And them pants killed my crotch where nice wet denim rubs for a day and a half and just starts eating that skin away.
I got the little teasing and laughing with the girls as we made it and I put it on and I looked really silly. It's done. I'm wearing a dress. I'm never gonna put them pants back on.
It feels great to be able to catch food, but I knew that one fish just wasn't going to be enough, so I took the spear. So, I start catching fish. After I got that, I thought, "Okay, some more. Some more." I was thrilled. I've never seen a saltwater catfish. I didn't know they made such an animal.
I got to the point where I thought I was going to get eight of them. Everybody was going to get their own fish. I didn't get eight, but we got us fish.
I had a great day. I don't know if I can keep up the workload that I'm putting on myself, but that's what I told myself I was going to do. I'm coming out here to be the caretaker. I'm trying to make these people believe that there is no way you can get along without me, and I think I'm doing it.
When I turned around and saw them idiots bouncing around naked in the mud, in the muck, in the stickers, in the thorns… (chuckles) it was hilarious.
I am loving life and loving this place and loving the position I'm in. I am in paradise. What more do I want? I'm living in a bounty of food. I've got beautiful souls around me. And I've got some help being strong. People are not truly lazy per se. People are having a hard time in paradise.
I love being in the middle of a gigantic fish tank. I love being able to go out and, in a couple of hours, bring a sack of fish home.
It's more of a pain in the ass for me to give him my spear and worry about it being lost or being, you know, broken or whatever where I and then I will be in trouble because that's my food. I need to eat meat.
The current was so strong, and it was throwing him into the rocks, and-- now, remember this is in our little inlet where it's a bathtub. He couldn't find the spearhead. He gives up.
My spear is gone, the head is gone. There's no more meat. There's no more meat. They're talking about tying the damn fork off to it. (shrugs) He could not even tell me where he lost it at. So I go out and I-I start doing a grid pattern. I start from the trees, start from where I know he wasn't, and on my grid pattern, I'd do about a size of a football field. You're looking at a general area that's five or six football fields.
I feel better. I stopped yelling and screaming at him and cussing at him and calling him bad names. I know finding that spear made him feel better. If we hadn't have found the spear, he, for sure, would have been done, done, done.
Our tribe went out half-cocked. I played into that for a while, too, until l started thinking about it. Pirates were not idiots, and people are not idiots, and you don't bury things in the sand that you don't want to be washed back up.
If their pot is the only water cleaning source they have, my God, l feel terrible about taking it. But l have to remind myself, we are pirates and this is our game. And Drake is the power to be reckoned with.
You know, l don't know, I turned around and Burton's pointing at my ass and laughing at me and just being an idiot. You know, it's like high school. The-the pretty boy jock-ass idiots all got to pick on me.
When Burt comes to me and says, "We're going to get rid of some of our Drakes..." as soon as he said that, I wanted to smack him and say, you know, "Traitor." If this was a pirate culture, he'd already be dead.
My alliance is interested in throwing the challenge to cut out a little bit of cancer in our tribe: namely, Burton. In that, l can sit out on a challenge. I already told them that, if l'm in a challenge, there's no way in hell that l would lose. Throwing a challenge is the stupidest thing that Drake could ever do. But will l stand back and let them do it? Yes, if that's what they want to do.
When I first got to the Morgan camp, the beach was pounding away at their shelter. The surf is coming up, and they don't realize that, as the moon is changing, the tide's going to raise another two or three feet. And they're using logs to try and stop the tide from taking their shelter away. It's not going to work.
These guys work very hard at not working. They fight and argue and bicker and bitch amongst each other so much that I know why it takes them hours to do anything. I know why they don't really do great in the challenges. I know why they're not really a great team.
I've been dying of thirst since I've been here. I've been hungry since I've been here. Maybe, at least for lunch, I can get a-a belly full of fish. I'm hoping to take Ryan out there, and I'll swim around with him and just kind of be his buddy and see if he can go catch a fish.
Ryno? Nice young kid, very willing to learn, wanting to be the provider. Not knowing how to do the providing. Willing to learn on the spear. Willing to go out with me. I'm very comfortable with him.
We had one beautiful one that was almost in the bag, and… Ryan lost it, and… I screamed real loud at him, and… I feel bad for him.
I love being back home. When Jeff said, "You can enjoy your bounty or go home," there wasn't even a question. I didn't look back. I come home. I didn't need to go share in the loot. I need to go bond with my tribe.
I poured two more bowls full of rice in his bag, and he was happy. That truly was not a looting. That was friends helping friends. There is probably a lot of danger in being too much in control of both tribes. Who knows what my own tribe even thinks of me, but if I push too hard, I will end up alienating someone.
Michelle feels like she is going. She is trying to make a plea that she works as hard, if not harder, than Shawn, and she eats lots less. She never takes more than her share.
She swayed me enough that I will mention it to others. Do we want to take Shawn out of this game? It's Day 15-- he was our first pick on Day 2.
“We welcome back this guy.”). Morgan returned to camp in high spirits with rain ponchos, a cooking pot, and a chance to get clean.
My first Tribal Council sucked. I was mad and l was tired. I was pissed off. I didn't want to be there.
They still do not see that we gave Morgan some great momentum. They don't see that.
For a while, everybody knew a Drake was gonna win this. Now, there is question.
This morning, I went and checked on Balboa. He was dead.
I am very irritated with Shawn. I want him off my island and out of my adventure.
I can't believe that Jon and Trish are trying to get me out before even the merge. We do not even know when the merge is going to be, and they're trying to get me out.
(voting for Trish) I cannot believe that you turned on me so quickly. Everybody in my tribe tells me that you want me out, and you lie right to my face. I can't take that.
At Tribal Council, I dodged the biggest cannonball aimed right at me. I knew when I saw two "Ruperts" in the vote, that Trish and Jon were against me. I was ready to kill Jon, and literally grab that little scrawny ass by the neck and pop his head off him like a (expletive censor) chicken.
I'm not saying Jon is finished yet. But… (sighs) I'm not saying that I believe him at all anymore. I don't believe a damn word he says. Jonny Fairplay is Jonny Pain-In-The-Ass now to me.
My tribe, they have it in their heads that we're going to a new island and having a big party and going to go with Morgans and be in a merge. If it happens, okay. But I'm not looking forward to it, because I have a strong tribe right now. I do not want to merge yet. And I cannot plan on a merge yet.
I don't feel vulnerable tonight. I have my three. I'm not vulnerable tonight. The two other guys in the tribe are vulnerable. Jon wrote my name down last night, and fair is fair. I should write Jon's name down tonight, but I haven't decided yet.
Amazingly enough, Burton shows up in a good mood, happy to be here, full of enthusiasm and life and just pumped Drake back up-- bang!, immediately.
I wanted to look him in the eye and say, "This is why I agreed to vote you out."
I didn't like the way that he treated me in the start of this game, and that hurt me and I wanted him to know that that hurt me. I portray a very strong and independent person, but, in my head, I'm that fat little terrified kid that was picked on in school all his life. And I saw Burton being those son of a bitches that would make fun of me.
Within two minutes of talking, all fears were subsided, all hesitation was gone. Everything was good.
As soon as you think you got the game figured out, they say, "Throw your buffs down, and you're all in one tribe." We're now going to be the Balboas, which I love, you know? That's my snake's name. And it's so nice to have new people in our home.
The feast was great. I got some ribs, a big old hunk of lamb.
We were trying to figure out how we could turn one Morgan against the others, and we find that little Lill already kind of resented them for voting her out.
I hope that all of the former Morgans, now Balboas, feel comfortable enough to eat as much as they want. I like that feeling of being able to fill you up and make you feel comfortable. I mean, I'm looking at these guys. Their body-- they're just emaciated from lack of food. It's sad.
It would be nice to go to Tribal Council, get rid of Ryan, who is one of the-- one of the leaders of the week. Ryan has the potential to band T and Darrah and maybe suck Jon and Burton in and give them five people that they could just-- they could steamroll over all of us… over Sandra, Christa, I, and Lill. Now will they do that? I hope to God, no.
(voting for Ryan O) I'm sorry we weren't on the same team. I know you would have been good with me. I would trade you for a bunch of my guys, but it's your time to go.
Nighttime is my one bad time. If I could go just 39 days and never have to sleep, I would make this beautifully. But nighttime is killing me. At night out here, I start thinking about family. That's when I miss my family. I tell Laura, my wife, all my woes and sorrows, all my triumphs. I tell Laura everything. And I want for everyone to see I am the best damn Survivor that has ever been. I am it. I know they will. Shouldn't think that way, I know. I know. I know. I know. I hear you. I hear you. Take it down to the one or two people that I truly, really care about. I care about Sandra and Christa. They care about me. It's very hard keeping mentally aware of everything that's going on around here. I try to guide everything that goes on on my island. I try to direct everyone's actions while keeping myself grounded and aware of what is going on and what I am doing, not settling ever for anything but first. And letting everybody here realize that they are finishing in places of honor. To build them up to be a winner and still lose… that's a hard mental battle.
I have to go out and get fish. I would love it if I was a mean-ass son of a bitch and just went out and got fish for myself. But, so, what are you going to do? You go out and get fish.
A shark appears, and I'm like, "Ah, I want him. I want him, bad!" But, the only way I'm taking that shot is if I can get directly over him, hit him straight down in the head and hold that spear into him. Because, if not, he's going to be gone with my spear.
I almost had a four-foot gray reef shark. My God, I sure did want that shark. I love being the baddest hunter out there. I never give up, I never surrender, I never admit defeat.
The deal between Burton and I, after I had given him my bacon, my breakfast, my wonderful breakfast… he said he owed me, and he would pay me back with the next challenge he wins. Burton promised me. It's fine. It keeps unity between he and I. It's a deal. It keeps unity in our group.
When Burton gave that away to Jon, and Lill kept it in her hand without even thinking about it, that showed me that… I might not be as secure as I am-- as I think I am.
Got to find out what's going on. My only hope is when Lill comes back, she looks me in the eye and tells me what Jon is talking about.
When Jon and Lill came back from their catamaran, I just sucked Lill in quickly and told her, "You stick with me and you could be top two." You know, "It could be you and me." I tried to figure out what Jon was talking to her about and if Jon was going to try and suck her in and get her in some kind of alliance. And she said "No." I know now that Lill will be wholehearted with me. I wanted to hug and kiss her.
The Immunity Challenge pissed the hell out of me. I know I was clearly the best dart-blower there. And they knocked me out so damn quick. My own team, Burton and Sandra, knocked me out. Sandra truly was a mistake. I don't blame her at all. Burton, he knew what the hell he was doing.
Darrah is still acting like she's ready to go and packing and saying her good-byes. But that could all be an act. Luckily, I have Lill on my side, I have Sandra on my side and I have Christa on my side. Lill has been the key figure in a lot of votes lately.
If they've turned and they've gotten Darrah, T, Jon and Burton together on one side, I've got my four on my side and we will have a tie.
(voting for Darrah) A Morgan has to go tonight. And the other two work harder than you do.
It is insane how bad I needed this. This would have made my life a lot better. I always get hurt trusting people. I want so badly to be accepted and I never get the acceptance that I want. I don't fit. So much for my dreams.
I would hope that Lill and Sandra appreciate where they are. Win or lose, they should appreciate the situation that they have been given… and earned. The significance of tonight is going to be life-changing for one person. A million dollars is going to be life-changing. We are going to take one little housewife, one little mama, and make their lives, their husbands' lives and their kids' lives different.
(voting for Sandra) Sandra, I am so happy for you. You deserve it. From the first day, when we were blood brother and sister, I was just thrilled to have somebody on my side. I'm glad l can be there for you now. I hope you win.
I am the new guy on the block, you know? All these people know each other. Right now I'm just trying to stand back and let all these egos decide what we do, and I'll be the worker bee. New strategy for a new game.
Man, we are all dying of thirst. And we need fire. We need to be able to boil water. We could be like Rudy and just grab the water and drink it, but none of us want to die.
Rudy looks at me and the first time he sees me, you know, all tie-dyed and hippie, he looked right through it and wanted to be my buddy.
Rudy is a man of few words, but from what I gathered, he's a man of honor. If he and I stick together, if we can just make it through these first few days, he and I will stick together through the end of the game.
You got Jerri and Jenna on one side saying, "We got to get rid of the winners." I got Tina and Ethan in the other side saying, "You cannot trust Jerri and Jenna, you cannot trust them." I think I might have some control over Rudy's vote. He and I are going to stick together.
Coming back from Tribal Council without fire was devastating. With Tina gone... pouring rain, dying of thirst... them thinking that we're going to bring fire home. So we leave a pot of water-- of well water, contaminated water-- in the pot instead of an open, empty pot to catch rain water is a bad way to end Day 3.
This is showing me that I'm not, you know, I thought I was an outdoors man, and I am... with a lighter. (laughs)
Rudy is most definitely a hero. More so than any other person here, he deserves to be here. Seventy five years old and doing... (tearfully) I can't... It's killing me to be here.
I'm not writing Rudy's name down. (deep sigh) I know that-- I'm not writing Rudy's name down.
(voting for Ethan) Ethan, you're tough. Rudy and I made a pact, and I am not voting for Rudy. I gotta vote for you, Ethan.
I don't know exactly what has got into the tribe. This morning, they want to do stuff. It's a little bit of missing Rudy, a little bit of guilt, a little everything. There's a lot of nervous energy. And it's getting everybody going.
(chuckles) As soon as I brought the fish back, Ethan's grabbing his spear and running out there. (chuckles) I tried to tell him it's not a competition. It's really not.
I like being the fisherman. I know he wants to be, too, but it can't be a competition between he and I. It will just hurt his emotions. It will hurt the whole camp. That's what beat us at the challenge yesterday. We weren't working together. If we can keep this harmony up, we will be a strong little tribe. Even though we're little, we are gonna be mighty.
I'm a rehabber by trade, and that's what I do is work on houses. So I told my tribe we're building a log cabin. We're going to dig down into the sand a couple feet to add to our height, so you walk into it and you'll be able to stand up. That's what I want.
I have a hard time standing back and listening to a bunch of people say, "It's too much work. It can't get done.” Everybody's... "I can't do it." Everybody, everybody. All three of them.
He walked around, and everything that was loose, he touched, and I saw it in his face when we walked down into the hut. He didn't like down.
I'm trying like crazy to talk to him. He doesn't really have anything to do with us, and he's ready to go.
And then I see him tell Jeff, “Water go down in. Bad.”
Our beach is destroyed. That stupid shelter that I built is destroyed. Digging into the sand is the dumbest idea I've ever had in my life. And we paid dearly tonight for it. It's now underwater, and we are homeless. And I got to build us another shelter today, something today.
That storm was insanely hard. It was rough this morning, it was rough last night.
If Jerri warms up and feels better and soaks a little of daylight in her, she'll be fine, too. But the plan today is, we got to make shelter, we got to make fire, and we got to get it together now.
We got some sleep last night in that new shelter. It was nice to get a few hours uninterrupted, relaxing sleep. We all feel... at least 100% better than yesterday morning. (laughs)
I feel very good about the raft. I'm trying to not think about the house. You know, I got my reputation riding on this damn thing again. We came up with a good design, and with four paddles, we should be able to fly. We want to win.
Their camp is... (exhales) compared to our camp, our camp was Hobo Junction. Theirs is the Taj Mahal.
The role of provider is wide open here. I like the fact that none of them could fish. A few of them would eat the-the snails that attach to the sides of the rock, but I want to be the guy that brings, you know, a couple of dozen oysters and a couple fish in every day.
Sue is playing her own game. She wants to be that provider, but the only meat that she's providing right now are those cone snails, which, I think, most of the people eat.
Sue was distant, non-responsive, throwing in the towel. Uh, at the time of the challenge and all the (exhales) contact and all that with Richard... Sue could have handled it different. She could have stopped right then and said, "Foul." Instead, she turns her head, says, "Oh, that's gross," and goes on. Thinks about it, processes it, comes up with her own agenda... and goes on with that.
When I first started this Survivor: All-Star, and I hear people talking, and you know, saying that they want to help me, or saying that they want me on their side, I couldn't trust any of them. Now after 16 days, I know that I can trust Jenna. I hope that I can trust Rob and Amber. I feel pretty confident with where I'm at.
Sue is Sue. She will endure and pursue her own agenda. She doesn't give a damn about what anybody else is doing. Ultimately, Sue having her own agenda will hinder her. She's-- it alienates her from the tribe.
With Richard getting voted off, Sue walking out and losing the challenge, three strikes, Chapera was almost out for a few minutes.
We all promised each other we'd stick together no matter what. What that really means, I don't know, but it's a good gesture, and it's a good show of faith.
My goal before our challenge was to pound that into 'em, even if we get behind, we stay calm, we stay focused, and we try hard. We'll win, guaranteed, if we keep our composure and we try hard.
There's burgers this thick and dogs and brats and lettuce and cucumbers and salad and asparagus and corn on the cob and salty, greasy, beautiful food.
I've been waiting 20 days to not have to poke fish with a stick. I'm going to be the hunter tomorrow. I hope I see that big six-foot shark. I hope I see that yellowfin tuna. I hope I see that grouper that's this big.
If Rob and Amber are not playing kissy face, sucky, kissy face yet, they are gonna be soon. Um, I have walked up on them in the middle of the night where they just looked so guilty it's not even funny, and I know something's going on.
Sometimes... I really like Boston Rob. Other times I see kind of an arrogant pain in the ass. You know, he wants to be the man.
Tom and I are definitely the worker bees on Chapera. I am not happy for anybody to lay their ass around in the shelter and let me do all the work, but... I can't go in there and say, "Get your ass out of that bed and go to work." I can't say that.
Big Tom did get him a little fish. Not a bad fish for his first fish ever on the spear. That probably hits in the goldfish category. That's a fish tank fish... but Big Tom got it, and he was thrilled.
I have not had a reward ever in my Survivor history. And I took two gorgeous girls. It was a great reward.
I sat down to dinner with Amber and Jenna who were dolled up to the nines, beautiful lips. I wanted to kiss and hug 'em all over. No matter how it turns out, when we get home, I have wholehearted faith in Amber and Rob and Jenna and Big Tom and I. Five strong, solid.
Our fire pit is in a lake, in a little stream. It's freezing cold and soaking wet. Make it through the night (coughs) but... in hopes that when the sun came up, it'd be better. When the sun came up, it was still bad; it was worse.
(tearfully) It's just uplifting. I like it that my wife and daughter think I'm the toughest, baddest son of a bitch out there... even though I'm not. I like that, though. That gives me strength. I'll read it a thousand times in next 11 days.
You know, that's almost a challenge I wish I didn't win. This is what killed me on Pearl Islands was... I let the pecking order be known, and then I was the next one gone.
This adventure is geared to create hard feelings between people. I hate being that person that creates the hard feelings.
When I came out of the ocean, I realized that nobody was going to help me clean fish. But they all want to eat the fish. I'm feeling used and abused. If somebody comes up and asks which fish is theirs, I will probably tell them the one that they caught and the one that they cleaned.
My little Jenna had the nerve to bitch at me about putting one of my fish on the grill. She's just getting really a pain in the ass, and I'm very sorry that I have an alliance with her.
Today, Bo and Mike came back from their little, uh, adventure with Big Tom and Rob. As soon as they came in, instead of letting them sit down and rest and enjoy their visit here, we put them to work, got them started, you know, helping us out at camp.
I took Bo out spearfishing. Big Tom wanted him to spearfish badly, and I wasn't even going to give Bo a spear. You know, I, uh, I kind of protect those spears. Even though I don't talk about it, I protect those spears. This is hard fishing, you know, Bo wasn't the greatest swimmer. He was using the spear to propel himself more than to fish. As we were fishing, I look at Bo's spear, and the head of it's gone. I had my flashbacks to when Shawn lost his spear tip in Pearl Islands. I'm not as worried about it because I've got my spear that is now going to be considered mine. They want to keep eating, they will let me use the damn spear.
The weather is terrible and it rains every day. The shelter is pitiful and it leaks every night. Every one of us stink like rotten dogs. The challenges are going to become more mental, more physical, more stressful. Camp life is hard, and as it gets down to the last few days, it's getting harder every day.
Jenna and I were gathering our coconuts and sitting down, celebrating, cracking open green coconuts and toasting to our victory over the darn coconut trees.
When Jenna said, "...and we have to beat Rob in immunity," I looked over and my heart sank because Rob was standing right there.
It was a little scary situation. Jenna already is full of paranoia and I don't need Rob to be full of paranoia. Paranoia will destroy ya.
They won a car apiece. They brought back pockets full of candy, and split them up into five piles. They took their share after eating dogs and candy. (imitating Amber) "I saved my candy." Well, it's easy to save your damn candy when you've got a belly full... and a new car!
If there is a Survivor hex that keeps the car winners from winning the game, I would love that. That would be my little justice. And I win the million.
If we want to have a fire at all, we're going to have to have some wood. After a while, I'll go get us some fish. This is the first night with not very much sleep and very little help. It makes me crazy to watch Rob and Amber sit on their butts, and then when challenge comes up, they have amazing amounts of energy.
If I get Tom in with Jenna and I, we three would be the power in this five and put Rob and Amber out of this game.
Rob is playing this game so hard now. I know that that was all a ploy to try and make me look bad. That's fine. I stood up, I told Big Tom what's what.
We just got back from Day 36's Tribal Council, where we voted Big Tom's butt out of here.
This morning's breakfast is good-bye to one of us. Somebody is leaving tonight. Boy, I hope it's not me.
My fate rests on the honor of a 26-year-old single mama who really, really wants to win badly.
I can't see Jenna going against me, and I don't want to go against Jenna. She's just a little paranoid. You got to let her alone. She's just a young girl. She's fine. I believe that she will write Rob's name down.
(voting for Rob M.) I don't know what else to say. I hope we both have two votes and I hope we go into a tie.
I am a little angry at Jenna. Greed won out over friendship. Almost disgusted me. There's not one person in this game that can say I lied to them, that I played conniving. I did my best. I honestly had a very, very good experience with Survivor All-Stars.
I came out here to take care of myself and everyone around me, and I did. I might not have won one damn Immunity Challenge, but I won a few rewards. I enjoyed myself, I shared, I cared and I actually had fun.
I am returning to Survivor for my fourth time.
Now it's time for Laura.
Watching my wife walk over to the other tribe, it was a little bit of a relief, and a little bit of sadness at the same time. I didn't have to worry at all about writing my wife's name down. But then, I also can't protect her.
Watching my wife get voted out of her tribe about killed me. Why they would do that, it's a-- it's a smack against me. That is everyone of those little scared newbies saying we've gotta stop Rupert.
I put myself in a position where I am not safe. It's killing me. But I would rather have myself in this position than I would my wife. Laura deserves to play the game.
In Laura and I's world, blood is thicker than anything. And Laura and I are blood. If I can battle my ass off Redemption Island and Laura is still there, you better watch out, 'cause we will be one hell of a team.
I am not going to do what I've done so many other times. One of the reasons why I've never won an Immunity Challenge is I kill myself out fishing. I kill myself out taking care of my tribe. But this is more individual. And if I'm going to beat Candice, I need every ounce of energy I got. If Candice wants to go out and kill herself gathering wood, and making fire, and keeping it going, and boiling water, and doing everything, great! Burn up her energy. I'm not going to. And I need to have in my head that I will eliminate her.
Tonight we got a third person in Redemption Island. At least it wasn't Laura that showed up tonight. That was my fear.
